it's been over a year since the last
episode of sketchy heatsinks
this project
was actually probably alex's worst at
the company it was over time over budget
and the end result was absolutely
abominable so
i told him
we're not doing sketchy heat sinks again
unless you can do a better job than this
which you might think is a reasonably
low bar but then it took an entire year
to bring another concept to the table so
you're already over time and over budget
but to your credit
this does look
a lot more promising
[Music]
private internet access encrypts your
internet traffic and uses a safe
protected ip check it out today through
the link below that was just not fair at
all
but not fair at all what part of it was
not fair first of all this is amazing it
cooled the processor great but anyway
what was not fair about that is that i
just did not have the tools that i
needed to properly do it
you had a blank check to buy the tools
you needed that's not an excuse okay
okay let's just yeah let's
yeah let's just get to let's put the
past in the past
all right so the plan for this one
is we're actually going to put heat
pipes
into aluminum
and then have
actual aluminum fins so we're going to
try to make a hyper 212 basically yeah
pretty much exactly it's like largely
ripped off of them if you look at the
design here basically we're going to do
is take one of these guys
drill six holes directly down in then
we're going to stick the heat pipes in
bend them at 90 degrees and they'll go
up through the fins which will have also
six holes in them and are you gonna
solder the heat pipes to the aluminum or
um they're going to be
thermal epoxied on you can't solder them
because like pipes
will explode if you eat them the only
part that really sketches me out is
bending the heat pipe
which hopefully will be done with this
but i don't know if we'll get a full 90
degrees on it so if that doesn't work
it's gonna have to sort of come out
at two angles like a v8 or a v6 i guess
that's going to make the holes through
the fins a complete nightmare oh we'll
have like fins on either side we'll like
cut them in half
and they'll like come out like this
the first order of business was to see
how far we could bend the tubes we
ordered 10 heat pipes so we only have
four chances to figure this out oh man
this is
this is such a terrible bender oh my god
authority just stuck on itself
oh this is about to get gross
out of the box the guide on the bender
wasn't correctly aligned how is this
thing so balls so we needed to make up
some of the slop to get consistent bends
so the working idea
to make
this which goes the wrong way compared
to the tubing sizes
line up correctly
is to just give her with the gaff tape
hopefully it'll work
i guess what you get for buying like a
20 thing
[Music]
i think that'll work
will it fit
so we've got the clearance there uh
looks good
yeah that one didn't quite work out
oh that one did not work out either
those are both totally mangled
this one right here this one worked out
so we're going 45 degrees
with the heat pipe angles decided it was
time to move on to creating the base
that would sit on top of the cpu out of
aluminum stock we
have a guide for the cpu block what we
really needed was a three and a half by
three and a half inch square but it was
cheaper to buy four inch stock so the
first order of business was to cut it
down then with our square cut down to
the correct size we needed to drill the
holes for the heat pipes to go in huh
it's basically a milling machine
ah
that's not gonna work
problem solved
perfect
could not have been better
well it definitely could have been
better but is this even going to hold
this in place
oh yeah it should be fine
i didn't want to like take the time to
measure all the holes so i just laser
cut them captain should be fine everyone
this this one is fine
that one this
is gonna go through there yep i don't
think you have a plan
i i was just gonna eyeball it
sweet about
thera look good no this way but
that way that too hey look it's got a
laser
yeah it doesn't work well
if only we had a rubber mallet
prepare for some lube to go everywhere
well
i'm pretty sure you're not supposed to
apply that while it's spinning if only
we had brushes here
you know
i approve everything you want to buy
all you have to do is order it well we
also literally have brushes so
i want to try it
i mean you wanted something to go wrong
so now we can both get our wish yeah
that's lots
[Music]
oh yeah you want that
this actually isn't as far off as i was
expecting why are you expecting it to be
off
gee i i don't know
wow these don't fit that tightly they
fit tightly enough
some of them are tighter than others
this one's pretty loose
how are you gonna get all that oil out
of there i was planning on just kind of
cramming it full of thermal paste and uh
you can't just slap a block of aluminum
on the cpu though since it will
interfere with the capacitors around the
socket so this side with the holes i
don't want to destroy them so that's why
i'm using the hacksaw for this
i can see this really quickly just
turning into my angle grinding
[Music]
with capacitor clearance cut and sharp
edges removed with the sander and file
the block was looking like it might work
it's drill pressing time again well i'll
have to let you do that yourself i have
other pressing matters to attend to
all right
bye no satisfaction it's excellent time
no no
i'm still satisfied i don't need you to
get off to be satisfied
oh it's so much more on the edge i love
it
with more lube
perfect i love how proud you are such a
great fit cool with our plan fully
worked out it was time to bend the rest
of the heat pipes all right now we need
to do
six of these
and i can make two errors during that
and i don't know if i'm capable of that
really these are kind of finicky and
this tool sucks
and i say
that but i just made it look easy so
we have one left over we can tell linus
to do the last one and tell them that it
actually matters
and see what happens
nice
well that was easy enough
the problem that we have to go over now
we have all of these sheets of aluminum
yeah and they need to go on these
yes
so we need to drill
these holes
in these and we need to figure out a
good way to hold these
got the clamps
yeah we seem to be on the same page here
so do we want to do half of them like
that
i don't know you're you claim to be the
expert
that moved a fair bit while you were
putting it on
i don't even know how much that's going
to affect the bit wandering
oh
that moved so much
okay
uh oh wow how are we gonna do this
professional
this is where we find out if
this project's gonna be on time or not
yeah it cuts through these like butter
not bad
they are mostly in a straight line-ish
yeah i think so just some cleaning and
prep was left until it was time to do a
test fit and make sure it would all go
together all those clear that awesome
come on
okay so about there
the fit surprisingly was pretty good
although a couple needed to be trimmed
down so that we could get the maximum
number of fins onto the heatsink
oh nice so we got this thermally
conductive adhesive from mg chemicals
which hopefully when put between the
fins and the heat pipes will
conduct most of the heat i don't know
the thermal conductivity on it isn't
great but it's the best that we've got
or that exists really
this kind of looks like candy tuna i
don't think i'd recommend putting this
on your sushi sushi
sushi oh man that smells like tuna too
our choice of medium cure time epoxy
means we'd have about 45 minutes to work
with it before it cures first the heat
pipe holes in the block were filled with
nth-1 thermal compound and then the
thermal epoxy was put on the end to hold
them in place
suppose it's done i guess
oh my god these are like almost gone
from here the heat pipes were covered in
thermal epoxy and the plan anyway was to
just jam the fins on i guess before i
put the epoxy on i should have made sure
that all six
heat pipes will go into this all right
to keep the fins from sticking together
we resorted to some good old-fashioned
canadian engineering using pieces of a
cut up tim hortons box to space them out
we repeated this process until we were
out of fins so while you're off spending
company money on lunch
actually that was personal lunch with
personal money same thing so i basically
finished it
oh finished is a word
so don't move it too much it's still
setting but i noticed that something i
hadn't really thought of until now uh
all the heat pipes are together
which oh yeah probably isn't the most
efficient way to do that no yeah it's
going to be like
right here is where all the heat gets
dissipated and then this is all just
worth it yeah like probably the
like outer inch or so is doing nothing
so aluminum here doesn't help us a whole
lot it probably should have been copper
but it would have been way more
difficult to machine and stuff you're
calling what you did machining
yes at this point all that was left to
do was leave it to cure overnight and
gather some comparative benchmark data
so we could determine just how good or
bad our creation really is it's really
dumb that windows doesn't automatically
restore connection to network drives all
the time i mean far be it from us to
criticize
other people's products at this moment
though
we pay for their products though
no one's buying this
i paid for it uh you're getting paid for
it
the total cost of this monstrosity
was
107.38
which is canadian dollars so that's two
dollars less than an hd15
and let's find out how long it takes to
mount i guess now you've stolen some
mounting hardware i see here this looks
like uh noctua mounting hardware that's
sort of cheating that's revised to
everyone though so
i think it's okay and it's the first one
that wasn't mounted with zip ties so
it's a pretty big improvement
what we're looking for so intel stock
heatsink okay took 40 seconds to mount
okay the
cooler master hyper 212 took 9 minutes
and 30 seconds okay so that's what we're
looking to beat so we start the time
right now um sure this is kind of
cheating because we're using two people
but i think this thing needs every
advantage it can get hold on no i don't
have to hold it from the bottom actually
and of course this is going to be a hard
mount now not a spring mount
because our block is so thick these
aren't going to reach oh did you check
you didn't check
i might still have an old school
water block mount in my office this is
like training wheels off cpu mounting
we could probably go a little tighter
but it's fine
no we're not going to use a blowy on
this that's cheating well i figured that
if that doesn't work i think rubber
bands is actually probably a better bet
yeah sure good enough all right it's 54
seconds still being hyper 212
so the hyper 212 idles were like
30 40 degrees the intel stock was
regularly getting up to 60.
it's still 30 degrees it's not going up
yeah so do we hit it with a load
it's kind of cheating to put like a 30
fan on it too
i realized that
but i just wasn't gonna mention it
like we definitely could have just like
c and seed out the whole block
got the pipes professionally done it
wouldn't even cost that much probably
would have cost less than a drill press
[Music]
there's no fun in this exactly that's
why it's our job to do it wrong it's not
even warming up like our heat pipes with
their lesser bend
may actually have some kind of
efficiency improvement in terms of their
evaporation and condensation another
thing that we haven't really considered
is that even though our heat pipes look
like they're the same diameter they
might be like a high quality heat pipe
so we don't know if these are good heat
pipes or not i would say that they are
they cost like 80 bucks
and you were just like ruining them all
right hit me with the flear
i want to see this first
whoa it's really cool yeah the hottest
part
is the fan hub
yeah like if you look at the motherboard
i mean there's the coolest spot is our
heatsink the base of our heatsink
is tops like 31 degrees as measured by
this you compare that to like
this capacitor
at 35 so cpu score is seven
like 73 26 73 26 how does that compare
we're right up there with the hype same
as the hyper 212
i mean there's plenty of time for it to
buckle under a sustained load i guess
oh
okay so that jumped right up to 83
degrees on the hottest core so far still
turboing huh
full turbo no throttle oh it's still
climbing though 86 degrees yeah so our
victory there might have just been
purely on mass alone so i have a
solution to this
what's that we call it a gaming heatsink
then when people say well you know under
a sustained all-core load it actually
doesn't perform as well we say well it's
designed for gaming so if we had spread
out our heat pipes more which we knew
yeah was better that's why they design
it like this so that way that little
area around the heat pipe
right in the path
of the most optimal parts of the fan
is exactly right yeah and that's why it
ends like a fingers width away from the
heat pipe because you're just
nothing's happening if you have more
aluminum here
all right so it hasn't thermal throttle
though or it's thermal throttle but it
hasn't it has it doesn't it's not
turboing anymore it's actually no you
know it's still above base clock
3.85
is above the base 3.7 clock speed of an
8700k
so
do we declare victory
it's better than intel stock
it's worse than a hyper 212 so assuming
that you have a half a dozen heat pipes
some blocks of aluminum and a bunch of
aluminum sheets a drill press some
thermal epoxy and a lot of time on your
hands
you can conceivably have a better cooler
than the intel stock cooler that your
cpu shipped with this one didn't though
by following this method mission
accomplished boys
speaking of missions being accomplished
thermal takes mission when they were
created the vue 71 snow was to make a
four-sided tempered glass case and they
pulled it off it supports mini itx micro
atx atx and the atx motherboards it has
four tempered glass panels and a dual
swing door it allows vertical mounting
options for two and a half slot gpu
solutions so even massive graphics cards
with the riser cable sold separately
it's got three-way radiator support so
top front or vertical and it includes
two of their ring 140 millimeter white
led fans and you can check out the full
details at the link in the video
description
so thanks for watching you guys i know
it was painful if you dislike this video
you can hit that button but if you liked
it hit like get subscribed or maybe
consider checking out where to
buy the things that are actually any
good that we feature at the link yeah
video description
these fans are good too also down there
is our merch store which has cool shirts
like this one and our community forum
which you should totally join
am i hot
yeah yes i do it